Design Documentation

Our guiding principles as we made design decisions for Übear were Nielsen’s Heuristics. We found these ten heuristics to be a comprehensive way for us to ensure that our design was usable. In our final product, we chose to use Bowdoin colors for a couple reasons. First, they are black, white, and grey, so they are neutral and not distracting. Before we had used a bright blue background, but later decided that it was a poor decision because it diverted the user’s attention from the main actions of requesting and offering rides. Secondly, we thought using Bowdoin colors was good for consistency and standards. Bowdoin students will be the users of Übear, so we wanted to make sure the design would be familiar and comfortable to them. We also tried to have a minimalist and aesthetic design by not bombarding the main page with unnecessary text that could overwhelm a user, but rather having the action buttons placed in the center in teal color that would attract the user’s attention. The main action most users will be taking on Übear is requesting or offering a ride, so we want their attention to be drawn to those buttons immediately. One of our biggest flaws was our inability to remove the large banner at the top of every screen. In our ideal design, the banner at the top would be much smaller and not take up half the screen. This is a flaw because the user has to scroll more to get down to some of the important functionality that would take less time to access if the banner was not as large. We especially wanted requesting or offering a ride to be very efficient for experienced users who do not want to waste time completing a simple task. For help and documentation, we included an "About" page that has information about SafeRide for those unfamiliar with it and contact information for people to reach out in case they have questions or concerns. To improve visibility of system status, we included a link to an Excel spreadsheet that contains all of the ride offers and requests. This way users are able to tell that their post actually went through and can also see if any new posts are made that work with their schedule. Early feedback on one of our initial prototypes suggested that users were confused about the roles of the requests and offers pages and were not sure where drivers and riders were supposed to go. We tried to clear up this confusion by writing text below “Offers” indicating that button is for riders and writing text below “Requests” indicating that button is for drivers. We tried to match the real world by having the tabs to other pages on the banner at the top. Another way we tried to match the real world was with the placement of our contact info. In our first working prorotype we had placed the contact information in the top center of the home page, but after feedback we decided it fit better at the bottom of the home page, a design choice that many popular websites employ. Overall, since our main goal was a relatively simple one (request or offer a ride), we tried to keep the design simple and intuitive.
